For a newcomer, did anyone suggest to you which of those A&M traditional events you attend?
Well, it was mostly this kind of anecdotal or what have you.
I mean, you know, people would say, hey, have you been to a muster?
You know, that's really something.
Or I'd have former students say, well, I'm going to be up there for muster, and it was clear that it was very meaningful for them.
And actually, I went to Silver Taps very early because there was a business student, unfortunately, that was killed in a car accident.
So I thought, well, you know, as a business school, I think I'd like to attend that and go.
And so, you know, very early on saw, you know, how meaningful these were, and particularly to the students and their families.
And very impressive.
You know, and I took a lot of pride in being associated with the university that had that kind of environment.
This normally would have been a question I would have asked near the end, but you've been here 13 years?
Right.
Looking back on those 13 years, which of the A&M traditional activities, which ones do you think are the most positive in their value to the institution?
Yeah, that's an easy one for me because I think nothing comes close to muster.
It's an annual event.
It's one that the former students feel some commitment to stay involved with.
It obviously has a very deep symbolic kind of meaning.
And it kind of reminds the students and emphasizes that, hey, we're different.
You know, this is a different kind of institution.
I don't know of anything like that anywhere else.
All right, on the other extreme, are there any of the traditional events that you think are marginal?
well uh you know there are some that i don't know that much about like elephant walk and some of those kinds of things that that you just read about in the paper and think well that's just kids and if they want to do it that that's fine uh you know i must tell you that that uh and i realize that this is a very controversial issue but but but i think
The actual burning of bonfires is something that we can find other ways to convey the same kind of impact to the students, I believe.
And that's not a new feeling with me, that I think we could have a lighting of some sort of memorial torch or any number of things.
It's just an opportunity for people to get together and
I never have thought it was necessary for students to spend weeks and weeks doing that, so that's just a personal.
I've wondered, could there be some something
that would be a torch-like, that each student takes one and puts it there, and that any former student who wants to.
See, I think that, yeah, you know, I hadn't really thought about that, but I think that would be great.
And, you know, the truth of the matter is there are not that high a proportion of students that are actually involved in Bonfire.
The most interesting experience was whenever it was, 93, 92, 93, that it collapsed without a catastrophe.
And my son was in school here, was a junior or senior.
And at that time, because they had to build it in like 10 days, rebuild it, they got thousands of people involved.
And he got involved.
And it was great, you know, and it didn't mess up his whole semester or anything.
And, you know, so I think we would be better served to get more people involved with less commitment required, and certainly with minimal risk.
All right, let's jump to commencement.
With such a large enrollment, and now three commencements in the spring and two in December,
And I understand that... No, three in December and two in August.
Oh, okay.
So we now have eight commencements.
Okay.
And I'm the one that Jack Williams threw a couple letters to one summer day in 72.
Two mothers had written and said, you don't have a summer commencement.
And our son, each of them said, my son is going to be at work on the other side of the earth, and he can't come back in December.
Why don't you have a commencement in August?
And he said, what do you think?
And I said, I think this is a mandate.
Well, will anybody come?
I said, no, let's give it a try.
Well, the place is filled.
Oh, I know.
I mean, we'd have to have it.
In fact, the one thing that, you know, it's funny how there are things that you don't find out about.
For some reason, nobody ever mentioned what commencements were like here for me.
I mean, really, and, you know,
I had been provost and been a dean for a long time.
In fact, the colleges did their own commencement at Houston, their own ceremony.
And so I really went to commencement, and I threw on my robe, and I figured in an hour and 15 minutes, I'll be back here taking my robe off and hanging it up.
And really, it was only after we had sat there for some period of time, and it was clear that we had a long way to go, that somebody
mentioned that there was a pool that everybody put in a dollar guessing on when we would leave.
And I said, what usually wins?
And somebody said, oh, something around three hours.
And that was the first time I realized what commencements were like at Texas A&M.
All right.
If you were advising A&M now, what would you advise them to do regarding commencement?
I think that's a really tough
question, and I'm not trying to be evasive, but I don't know what we should do in that, because there are arguments on both sides, that obviously we have something somewhat unique in handing people diplomas and calling out undergraduates by name.
But it's also clear that, particularly in the new facility, that we have a real problem keeping people there, that that's just too long to expect them.
I guess my recommendation would be, let's try to do it by college, and with the understanding that it'd be a ceremony that from start to finish would be no more than an hour and a half.
I think we've reached a size, frankly, in the commencement that business is involved with,
We might be really hard pressed to do it an hour and a half because about 75 to 80 percent of the total students at that particular commencement are business students.
But I think you could cut out a lot of the front end and you would obviously have to keep the presentations very short.
Up at Missouri, I disliked each college having its own, planned its own way at its own time.
Because some of them did not have the dignity that some of the others had.
And I'm really, really a strong believer that you call every name, give every parent an instant to be proud.
And also one of the problems up there is...
One of our children is graduating here, and our future daughter-in-law or son-in-law is graduating at almost the same time in a ceremony on the other side of the campus, and our nephew, and to get to all of them.
And then we had such goofy things as a tape recorder that was playing the anthem for the march in.
It fell off the rail.
The battery went dead.
So that's difficult.
Well, you know, I'm very sympathetic to that.
Frankly, you know, I like the...
I'm not really that crazy about having separate cognates, but on the other hand, if we're going to keep it like we are now, then we need some drastic surgery on it.
I mean, we may not need a commencement speaker, in all honesty.
It's probably a lot more meaningful
to have the student's name called than to have a commencement speaker.
I've wondered to have the president or the provost, an institutional person to say something five minutes worth.
And to emphasize the calling of the names and the shaking of the hands.
Okay, back on your getting here.
Did, as you are in your early days, did any legislator attempt to give you guidance, counsel, plus or minus?
No, I really can't think of it.
I mean, I knew Kent Caperton and had visits with him, and I knew some of them from my days in Houston.
Yes, that's right.
He was the state senator then, was he?
But, you know, I really, that's never been a problem for me, and maybe it's just because we haven't had the intersection of
of our college really needing anything specifically at the legislature and so forth.
But no, I've really never had that kind of problem.
I've always really enjoyed the, you know, now I've known, knew Steve Ogden a long time before he was a state rep.
In fact, he has his MBA from this college.
So that's really not been an issue for us at all.
And you were familiar with the Coordinating Board already.
Yeah, very.
Now, during these 13 years, have you had to go to the Coordinating Board to get anything approved?
Well, we have.
You know, there have been a few programs.
But even when I was at the University of Houston, I always envied Texas A&M's relationship with the coordinating board.
They seem to have done a very good job.
Obviously, there have been some rough spots the last few years.
But I think we've historically had a good relationship with the coordinating board and a lot of mutual respect.
What was your first major goal attainment?
What was the first big victory?
You know, that's tough to answer because a lot of times I think success is a lot of little victories.
You know, I could fall back and say that early on we had some good recruiting success with faculty that we really wanted, that we thought were important.
Or I could say from an external visibility standpoint that we cracked into some of the rankings that we so desperately needed for credibility and recognition of where we were.
Really important, being designated as a federally funded Center for International Business and Research.
How did that come about?
Well, that came about as a very competitive, there were 16 schools chosen by competitive proposals.
16 in the nation?
Uh-huh.
Who else in this region?
Well, the University of Texas is the only other one in this region, but I mean, it's Michigan and Northwestern, and it's the right NYU, right UCLA, right set of schools.
So the two in Texas, what about in the big 12 institutions now?
They must be the same two.
Just the same, just those two?
Okay.
And if we go all across the south going east, how?
I believe that Florida
I think that's the only one.
But that was important, and we've, you know, we've enjoyed that several hundred thousand dollars a year of support to help us with our international program.
So, you know, it's really been a series of little steps, but we've kept moving in the right direction for the most part.
Was there an early key recruitment that made you proud?
Well, I think that there were, you know, there were a number of them.
We put a lot of time and effort
And to recruiting, for the most part, we've concentrated on young, entry-level faculty and tried to create an environment that would be conducive for them to prosper as scholars.
And, you know, no one in particular, but this is, we began to see after two or three years that there were a different set of people who were considering us.
And we knew that we were headed in the right direction.
How did you all select those young, promising people?
Well, the way business recruiting is done is typically you do recruiting at your annual meeting.
And like management might interview 40 people at an annual meeting and then pick seven and invite them and then make however many offers we have out of that set.
And what we have found is that over time that those sets
changed pretty dramatically.
And, you know, it made the competition tougher.
We're competing as we should be with other schools that are in the top ranking.
And as you were looking for resources, the central administration made those available to you?
Well, I would not be a good dean if I indicated that they had given us everything we were entitled to or certainly deserved.
And I think, in all honesty, it's varied over time.
I think different administrations maybe have had different priorities.
And certainly one of my jobs as dean, I think, has been to try to continually remind the administration the role that we can play in the development of the university itself and in the recognition for the university.
And it's not been totally consistent.
What we have tried to do and I think have done pretty well is increase the amount of external support to help supplement that.
When I came here we had a total college endowment in 87 of less than five million dollars.
Right now we've got a total college endowment of probably 65 million and another 20 million in pledges and
various gifts to be forthcoming.
Who are some of the major donors?
Well, certainly Lowry Mays has got to be at the top of that list.
And even more importantly is that I think Lowry has become committed to helping us down the road as well.
That he's been very supportive in the most positive sort of way.
You know, I go to meetings and hear from other deans stories about named donor kinds of gifts where they do everything but move an office in next door to the dean.
And, you know, Lowry could not be more indifferent.
He's interested in what we're doing.
He wants to help when he can.
He has no desire to try to tell us how to run the college.
It's just perfect.
And so certainly that would head the list, but you know, we've got corporate donors now, Reliant Energy, this gave us three million, Ford gave us two million.
Jerry Cox gave us a million and a half for our new building, and what a difference.
I mean, that's really what's enabled us to play in the big leagues.
In terms of your needs, your desires, what is funded best and what least in terms of scholarships and faculty chairs and so forth and so on?
Well, the things that are funded externally, frankly, we've done better on relatively than we have the things that almost always have to be funded internally.
You can always use more scholarships, you can always use more professorships, but we've done relatively well in those areas.
And certainly the last capital campaign made enormous strides.
We now have like 50 to 60 endowed professorships and chairs.
50 to 60.
50 to 60?
Yeah.
My, my.
And, you know, those are varying degrees of funding, but most of the chairs are in the million-dollar range.
Most of the professorships are in the half-million-dollar range, and they make a difference.
Where the funding has been relatively inadequate is in the area of this basic faculty line positions.
And part of that, you know, I've been a university administrator, and you have too, and we know that you just don't reroute money.
And so part of that is just a natural consequence of the fact that we have grown so much
And that it's never possible to move resources as fast as student demand can change, either direction.
And as a college, you know, when I came here, and I'd have to look at the numbers, but I suspect that we had at that time probably at most 37, 3800 undergraduate business majors.
You know, two years ago we peaked at about 6,500.
At the same time, the graduate programs have
have grown, the numbers are less impressive, but percentage-wise, it's, you know, we're probably at 800, or next fall, we'll be at 800 to 900 graduate students.
So, you know, so consequently, we just haven't been able to keep up with that demand, and so two years ago, we made an agreement with the university that
that in order to deal with this the university we agreed that it would take 22 new faculty positions to deal with that and the university felt like that was just not possible so we agreed that we would
get 10 new faculty positions over the next four years, three years, and that we would put an enrollment management program that would cut enrollment back to about 52 to 5,300 undergraduates.
And our first choice was to get enough resources to maintain the program at its current size, but this is a workable solution.
in the future, would that be a reasonably appropriate size for the college?
Well, it, you know, it's a comfortable size for the college, but I think it's a broader question about whether it's an appropriate size based on what the students want.
If you look at our College of Engineering, I mean, it's at least twice as big as most colleges of engineering.
And the reason for that is, is because this is a university that people interested in engineering think of.
first-rate program and they do a first-rate job and so consequently there's demand.
We feel like that the same could be said for the business school.
So I think it's a broader university question about
whether we should tell students that basically this is not where you can come if you're interested in business beyond that certain number.
I mean, we're still a big business school at Ole Miss Centers.
So, I mean, but we're comfortable with the number, and obviously the quality is just outstanding.
Now, I've always wondered what if 25 years ago, Dr. Williams, I remember he said, we'll never have more than 24,000.
What if UT and A&M had done something like California did, Berkeley and UCLA?
can't be undone, we can't go back.
But I always wonder what will be the future comparative ceiling, but that's not for us today.
Let's see, did you, in your early years, did you submit any outline, any master plan for the college?
We're a business school.
We're planners.
Probably one of the strongest things we had going for us, and it's still helpful to us in that regard, is that we probably do, relative to most academic units or disciplines, a good job of at least laying out what it is we're trying to do and how we intend to get there.
And I would say when it comes to that sort of thing, we're very good at it, in all honesty.
We lay it out.
People can agree or disagree with what our objectives are and whether or not the resources will be in place to make it happen, but we do a good job, I think,
and laying it out.
And I think very early on, and in fact, you know, there was good planning in place in this college before I got here, but that also is, I believe, a strong suit of mine.
And so I certainly was happy to seize upon that and make sure that we did everything we could in that area.
Now, what was the mechanism for developing those plans?
The and that'll vary by each college but in in this college we have a very open communication and and I think we have a history of that and it's it's one of the things that was very attractive to me because it fits so well with with my style and that you know we we would have meetings in each department
talk about it, here are the priorities as we see.
Do you agree or disagree?
And, you know, really developed a consensus, I think, on what our strategic focus was to be.
And we don't do that every year.
And, you know, because you really don't need to do that every year.
Most people don't want to be bothered with that kind of meetings.
But, you know, we do it on a regular enough basis that people feel like they have real input into where we're headed.
Now the college divided into how many departments?
Five departments.
It was when you got here and still is.
Still is.
And five very large departments.
Then the staffing at the college level, who's on the dean's team?
What subordinate administrators?
We've got three associate deans, one that has the undergraduate program and some of the infrastructure like IT.
And we have an associate dean for graduate programs.
And then we have an executive associate dean that
really kind of forms an office of the dean, with the dean, and in addition, you know, has some specific responsibilities like research and some of those areas.
Does that person act in your behalf if you are unavailable?
Correct.
Now, did you mention assistant dean?
Yeah, we do.
We just elevated our budget finance person to an assistant dean role, and I'm really very pleased with that.
That individual is set on our executive committee, our college executive committee.
Our executive committee in this college is a very active group.
It's the five department heads, the associate deans, the assistant dean, and myself.
And there is no major policy issue or really no major issue in the college that doesn't go before that group.
Give some examples of important discussions, both serious or otherwise.
Sure.
Well, really, just almost anything that's happened in terms of, like,
Talking about the policies for annual evaluations and merit review, we really set those policies in that group, you know, and decide so that there's consistency across departments.
If we were talking about faculty workloads or lecture workloads or whatever, we talk about them in that group.
What kind of range, what kind of flexibility do we wish to allow?
We'll talk about, oh, I was just trying to think what some of our recent discussion items were.
Well, any revision like promotion and tenure policy or anything like that.
We discussed with that group, we're talking about restructuring our total salary package to where we eliminate some of the summer support but try to increase the annual monthly salary.
and to try to get more competitive in that regard.
And, you know, those are very carefully thought out in that group.
Did that group come up with the 5200?
Yeah, that was certainly, you know, all of that was discussed with that group.
In fact, you know, many times we'll actually have that group communicate
the decision so that it's clear that it's at a wide college discussion.
Among the five departments, that 5200 number limit will affect which one most negatively, most severely?
Is there any other?
I think we're not sure about that yet, and you know the
We have some of the same problem the university does that we don't shift, really can't shift resources that quickly.
There's no question that the management information systems area is the one that's had the biggest increase.
Finance has had a big increase.
Seven or eight years ago when the banking industry was really in a depression, finance had the biggest decrease.
And so, you know, we try to, we look at it each year.
But there's some changing patterns, but there's no doubt in my mind that long term and in the foreseeable future that the information technology area is one that we're going to have to continue to put new resources.
And the 10 new positions that we've gotten, so far we've put five online, and all five of those have gone to the MIS and to the finance area.
And that's another issue that's discussed in the executive committee.
I mean, these aren't deals that are made, really.
We've laid out the numbers and said, here's what it looks like, and basically the other department heads have not always been real happy with that, but have recognized that that's what we had to do.
In the operations of the college, you meet with that group once a... About every other week.
Every other week.
And those departmental leaders have the title department head or chair?
Department head, which was something else that was new when I came here.
And I'm not sure that the distinctions are really very meaningful anymore, but the implication being, at least in the minds of many of the people that have been here for a long period of time, the department head implies that they serve at the pleasure of the faculty, as opposed to a department chair that's an appointed position.
The distinction really is not significant anymore, but essentially the faculty, if we have to fill a department head position, the faculty present me with a nomination that I can accept or not accept, and they're elected for a four-year term by the faculty.
All right.
Do you want them to always represent the majority opinion of their faculty, or do you want them to always represent what they consider to be the best decision?
Yeah.
You know, just like I have to represent the interest of the college, you never can ignore that, and we expect to make sure that they get that viewpoint across.
But one thing that we've really emphasized, and I don't know how this happened.